 I know many of you, out there will disagree with me, when I say that Schindler's List is one of the greatest film that there has ever been. It does sound that I'm extremely overrating it, but I truly believe that Schindler's List is up there with The Godfather and Citizen Kane I mean everything about is so good, that its close to perfection.The acting is brilliant, every actor does an amazing job. Liam Neeson as Schindler is incredible, no doubt about it. He should of won an Oscar for Best Actor. Ralph Fiennes is the one, who truly is the best actor in the film. He plays his antagonist role as Amon Goeth, so well that it is a travesty, he didn't win an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor.I'm happy though, that the Academy chose this film for Best Picture, it was one of the best decisions they ever made. Because if this film wasn't considered Best Picture by the Academy, I don't know which film would be, expect maybe for The Godfather.Steven Spielberg certainly deserved an Oscar for Best Director. It was a smart idea for Steven Spielberg to make this film in black-white because it made the movie more bleak, emotional, hopelessness. But you see small patches of color -- A candle and a child's coat bringing the evilness of the tragedy into a agonizing focus.There's no doubt about it, this film will be a classic in decades, even hundreds of years to come in cinema. This film is without a doubt, the Best film that Spielberg has ever made. With many other Steven Spielberg's classics like Jurassic Park,Jaws,E.T, Raider of the Lost Ark, Saving Private Ryan, etc. Schindler's List will always be Steven Spielberg's most finest, important film. He blends his humanism to the tragic horror of the Holocaust to create an emotional masterpiece.10/10 Absolutely Recommended! 
  Many movies come out each year and we applaud them for their screen play, orginality and whatever else we can say about a movie. But only once in a long while does one come out and you say all those nice things, but one you will also never forget. This movie is more than just something for us to watch for 3 hours and 17 minutes, it is something for us to never forget, to teach us a lesson and to remember those who died needlessly along with those who tried to help those same people survive.  
  Schindler's List is not only a pure masterpiece but, for me, it is one of the greatest films ever made in the world.The film starts off to reveal a womanizing, Nazi business man who profited off of slave labor.  The Nazi business man is of course Oskar Schindler. Oskar is just like most men.  He has a love for good wine, beautiful women, and pursues happiness through the success of his business.  But on his journey to a successful business, millions of Jews were being killed during a time which most label as one of the darkest periods of human history. As Oskar made money, innocent people were being murdered.  That's when the self-centered, often money hungry Oskar steps in and gives up his goal of having a successful business to save the lives of over 1,000 Jews.This film is about redemption and was beautifully photographed in black and white by Janusz Kaminski (cinematographer).  At the helm is no one other than Steven Spielberg, who brilliantly called non-pretentious shots and brought back to life a time and period most want to forget, but shouldn't. This film is a must see by me.  I give the film an "A+" (wishing I could give it a higher grade than that) and a 10 out of 10...  
  The first (and last) time I viewed this masterpiece in a theater, I could not help but notice the reaction of the audience upon their leaving. Some were crying or trying to hold back tears, some were stunned, some had completely blank faces, some showed signs of anger; but the overall atmosphere was one of utter silence. Never in the history of motion pictures has a film had such an emotional impact upon its constituents.  
       This is the best war film about the Holocaust I have ever seen. It depicts the horrors of the Holocaust and war, the tragedy of Jewish nation, and I know, this film could be directed by a Jew, who keeps these horrible times and crimes against humanity in his heart. The tagline says "Whoever saves one life, saves the world entire". And this film shows us that no human life can be replaced by another one, and that there is nothing more valuable than HUMAN LIFE. I have not seen a film of such a power in my life. Superbly directed by Steven Spielberg, magnificently photographed in black-and-white by Janusz Kaminski (one of the best directors of photography in modern Hollywood, so to say), perfect performances by Liam Neeson and Ben Kingsley, and, especially, John Williams' beautiful, brilliant score, brings the whole horror and tragedy, cruelty of Nazism, Holocaust and War. This is Spielberg's Triumph. Congratulations! 
  Just watched this for the second time - what a movieNo film has ever had the impact on me that this has had - even more so second time around.  Hard at times to watch and I had to switch it off for a while.Last scene is unforgettable.Must be close to best film ever made and we can't forget it.  
  Schindler's List is a long and tough movie to watch.  But it pays dividends.We're all pretty familiar with the story - a German businessman enlists Jews to work in his factory.  At first, I believe, as an opportunist, for the Jews are cheap, readily available labour.  He does, however, become gradually aware that his factory means the difference between life and death.And so his 'list' is born.  A list of Jews that he requires to 'work' for him.  It is, in reality, a list of life and Schindler knows it.Liam Neeson fills Schindler's boots well.  You soon forget he is Neeson at all.  Ben Kingsley is, ofcourse, his ever-reliable brilliant self.  And Ralph Fiennes easily creates one of the screens most hateful villians (sadly, a villian who actually existed).There are some tough scenes (most notably, the liquidation of the ghetto, Goeth's (Fiennes) brutality in the camp) and it's all filmed in beautiful black &amp; white - except for the highlighted girl in the red dress, which has a brilliant symbolic meaning later in the film.A terrible chapter in humanity's history but one told so well by Spielberg and co.It has a powerful and lasting effect - just as it should.  
 Steven Spielberg makes one of (if not the one) his greatest movies of all time. Liam Neeson gives a great performance as Schindler and the whole film is just powerful, amazing and sad but it doesn't matter because the movie is so good. Ralph Fiennes makes an even better performance as Goeth, a man who made everyone stare into the screen with anger and sadness and that is just what a movie is supposed to do-make you feel sad, happy, angry or effect you in some way. I read that someone thought it was overrated and bad, but I think it's a classic and it'll never go away. So if you want to see one of the greatest historical films ever made, then go see Schindler's List.EDIT: I wrote this when I was 12 or 13, and I'm so sorry about my AWFUL English... Ah, well just have that in mind when you read this. =) 
  To sum up Spielberg's masterwork in one word is a nearly impossible task, but I have come to the conclusion that Schindler's List is perfect. Liam Neeson as Oskar Schindler is truly great in recreating the role of a modern day Moses. Making this film all the more compelling is John Williams' perfectly composed original musical score. This film deserves all the awards bestowed upon it, especially best picture by the National Board of Review and the Academy and the Academy Award for best director Steven Spielberg. It deserves all these awards and more. Schindler's List is a film that everyone should see and appreciate to its fullest extent. Spielberg will remain an immortal filmmaker through the work he put into this film.  
 When I first saw that Spielberg was behind the movie, I had my doubts since his earlier work doesn't really fall into this category, but I held faith and I have not been disappointed! From the beginning it is such a powerful and moving film and it brought tears to my eyes more then once. It is completely set in Black &amp; White, except for the Red Coat Girl which is pure genius, since it really helps develop the time period it was portrayed in.The Actors too were completely fantastic! Every single actor and extra seemed to be doing their very best and really lived their roles, especially Ralph Fiennes, who was brilliant as the twisted Nazi Amon Goeth. Not just anyone could make that character real and get away with it. All of the characters in the film have depth and substance and the best thing was that you actually see a few of the Jewish people throughout the entire film so we can sympathize with their tale more.It's a film to watch if you enjoy depth and meaning. 9 Stars, Excellent Film! 
