 As I watched that movie, I saw the Turkish relationships in the best way that it could be shown. A very good choice of cast is the most powerful criterion of the success of the movie. Humeyra, the grandmother is a very talented woman in acting. Emotional scenes become more frequent while we see the movie to get to the end. Unfortunate events make the Turkish people get closer to each other. The movie shows that perfectly. Hospitality, love, grief, laughs... Everything is included in this movie. An emotional breakthrough. The movie also points on the elderly reality -now an impossibility- the torture, made by the cops.Better to be watched by fathers and sons. Also, crying may occur, don't worry; too many people who watched the movie had the same. 
 The movie starts on the days of military government, which started Sep.12th, 1980, and lasted 3 years (Effects of this action against democracy lasted more than 15 years). A young socialist newspaper writer (Fikret Kuskan) loses his wife on birth of his only son on the very first day of the military action, because he can not find any help for delivery of the child. After 6 years past, the father was desperate to find any jobs on the papers, which are now supporters of the new order, and decides to return his father (Çetin Tekindor)'s home in a small village near Izmir: A house that he has left years ago fighting his father's wills to make him a person that his father would like him to be.I can not even summarize the rest of the movie, since one should see the movie himself/herself to understand the encounters of two strangers, father and son. One should notice the mother (Humeyra)'s role on the relationship (or non-relationship) of these two different men, and the grandson (Ege Tanman).If you have a Mediterrenean blood, Greek, Italian, whatever, you will find many things in this movie. You don't have to be Turk to understand the emotional rivers in this movie. It really touches hearts of the Turkish people. 
 A simple story becomes a sad and poignant movie about ordinary people.. Every person I know who had the chance to watch this wonderful movie have cried -especially during the second half.. I applause everyone involved in the production of this magnificent piece of work.. Really brilliant work, presenting some top-notch performances (esp by Humeyra and Cetin Tekindor) and a clever collection of spectacular moments. No special effects, no superhuman strengths no fantastic landscapes.. Just human and the ordinary feelings. I felt some rush to call my mom and dad just after the movie to be sure that they are OK and to make them know once again that I really care about them. This movie makes you think deeper on values that make us human and also etches itself irreversibly to your memory by touching the deepest possible regions of your soul.. Highly recommended; a must-see! Do not forget your tissue papers because you probably will not be able to keep your tears from flowing...Thanks Cagan Irmak, and continue to blow our minds away.. 
 The director of Babam Ve Oglum is Cagan Irmak.Cagan is the best and the youngest director of Turkey.I believe that one day,all people will notice his ability.Before Mustafa Hakkinda Hersey and than Babam Ve Oglum... I don't remember crying like that before.Subject of the film is not only Turkey's problem,all families' problem. Subject is wonderful,music is wonderful,actors and actress are wonderful,director is wonderful so the film is wonderful! I hope most of people in the world saw that film and put in order their family's life.Picturegoers must saw that film....You LOVE this film like me!(don't forget to take with handkerchief to go to the cinema.) 
 I have never seen a movie ever before, that brings a tear to anybody who sees it, at the sound of a violin, or a single word uttered.Babam Ve Oglum.Director: Cagan ImrakLead Characters: Ege Tanman ... Deniz Çetin Tekindor ... Hüseyin Fikret Kuskan ... Sadik Hümeyra ... Babanne Serif Sezer ... Teyze Yetkin Dikinciler ... SalimI Salute them all. I have always despised the entertainment industry, most of all the Film industry, at the back of my mind, though I fancy a career there. I have always thought that half the money that goes into movie production or theatres or things like that could feed so many people out there or give them a job, get a living for them.If someone's going to bring to the screen a movie like Babam ve Oglum, I'd never ever utter a single word against the industry. You won't believe that one movie can affect you so much for the moment that you, even if you haven't cried since 5th grade, would be overwhelmed so much that you'd cry more than the characters on screen. Especially when you watch it alone, without anyone to distract you from the scenes. I have never felt the urge to cry for a long time. This movie reminded me of a lot of things that were hidden in me, that I strongly urge everyone who has had even a glance of this page to watch it at any cost. A must watch movie.Apart from the Director, who deserves to be recognized at the highest level, I must mention a few words about the background score. NO other BGM I have heard has ever got even close to this. . Out of this World.Finally, Coming to the story, this movie is about a father, who, after the loss of his wife, takes his little son back to his hometown (from where he had run away, defying his dad) because he suffers from a lung disorder. He wants to ensure that his child has a home when he's gone, and decides to confront his father and tell him about his condition and reconcile one final time before the final goodbye. And the characters portray the situations and experiences so convincingly that I couldn't help but put their names on top of this post.I am sure that this will remain my most favourite movie of all time for a long time to come.Bravo. 
 I think,this movie is very special for Turkish cinematography.Cagan Irmak(If I were you,I would be careful with him.He is great man) told us dying for opinions and the importance of the family.While I had watched the movie,I perceive that I want to believe my imaginations in my childhood and never want to grow up.Congratulations Cagan Irmak!Because of you touched our hearts in a very beautiful way.In addition,I should thank Çetin Tekindor( If he was born in an other country,he will certainly be an actor such as Anthony Hopkins),Fikret Kuskan(no comment),Hümeyra,Serif Sezer,Ege Tanman(Sadik's son)..Please don't be prejudiced against Turkish movies and watch this movie.You won't certainly be regretful.I think,everybody should watch this movie. 
 The acting was perfect in this movie from the kid (Deniz) to Çetin Tekindor (Hüseyin Aga). All player did their job in a great performance. Also the places the film shot was great. My grandfather lives in a similar village, and I used to go to there in summers in my early ages. I went to back again to my childhood when I was watching the movie. It reflects the life style of those places in a very good manner and reality. No detail was skipped. Also the director mixed the drama and joy in the movie very well so that you can laugh suddenly when you pity for something you see in the movie. This was, I think, a great directing success for the new generation director, Çagan Irmak. So, this a "must to see" film I think, especially for the Turkish viewers (It includes so much domestic features). But international viewers can also get a real good taste of it, because main themes (such as family bonds, love of son) in the movie are humane things. 
 Anyone who watches "My father and my son" will eventually relate the movie to a family relationship they have lived. It is a perfect visualization of what people do because of their ego and what can actually destroy that ego. The movie makes the viewer ask "what if" questions about almost everything and the answers will be different for everyone. The acting is definitely remarkable with less experienced characters (including the little kids) putting on a display to remember when aiding patriots of Turkish movie industry. Overall I can say that "Babam ve Oglum" is a blending of great acting, wonderful script, and a real life story. 
 Give him a room dad, he do not have any else place to go... Is the best and the most important Turkish movie written and directed by CAGAN IRMAK... He is a wonderful writer and director. Although his young age, he is more successful than other older directors. I recommend everybody to watch this perfect movie! Actors and actresses were wonderful, time was expressed very well. It is impossible not to be touched and cry after watching the movie.Developing Turkish movie sector will have a very important affect on European movies especially with the help of this movie.Cagan Irmak had proved his talent with his previous movie "Mustafa Hakkinda Hersey." I hope more these kind of movies will be created in Turkey and Turkish movie sector will be developed with the help of good quality moviesA PERFECT film surely not to be missed! 
 This movie came out in Turkey late 2005, without much advertising. It's a small family drama, set largely in western rural turkey in 1987. Within a couple of weeks, the film became a smash hit solely through word-of-mouth. Since then, it has received every national award and has become the third-biggest grossing film of the country's history by mid-March (it could go even higher, considering it's still playing in theaters after several months). It is indeed a good movie, but i doubt it'll reach the same kind of wide audiences outside the country. It's well-written, well-acted and well-shot; but some of the jokes, and especially the local accent that adds the movie a lot of its charm will be lost on international audiences i'm afraid. Similarly, the film doesn't give much information about the political events that unfold in the background. I think one of the reasons the film did so well is that it reflects the atmosphere of the older Turkish films, from the industry's heyday in the sixties. Its mixture of comedy and tearjerker melodrama catches a very subtle balance. Granted, the melodrama bits are rather manipulative, but effective nonetheless. I heard that a tissue company did a campaign where they distributed tissues to the ingoing audiences, don't know if it's true though. My one (small) problem with the film is a few anachronistic details, but i guess they wouldn't even be noticed by someone who wasn't around then and there. If you come across this movie at a local festival or some other way (not very likely, but anyway), give it a shot. It's worth watching just to see the little kid in the leading role. 
