 DANGAL is a masterpiece. A terrific film that stays in your heart and remains etched in your memory much after the screening has concluded. A brilliant film that restores your faith in Hindi cinema. Actually, it won't be erroneous to state that DANGAL is the finest film to come out of the Hindi film industry in a long, long time and mark my words, it will be remembered as a classic in times to come. It blends drama, emotions, sportsmanship and patriotism extraordinarily… the icing on the cake being Aamir Khan's towering act. This rich-in-merits film has a major advantage too -- the holidays ahead Christmas and New Year -- which will ensure a glorious run at the ticket counters. A must, must watch! 
 I saw this with my family in a theatre. Awesome experience. This is why i love Aamir khan movies. Proud to be an Aamir khan fan. Aamir's acting, effort n most importantly his passion is what makes his cinema so damn unique. First thing Dangal has going for it is Aamir khan. First off the acting was amazing. Aamir khan gave arguably the best performance of his career playing Phogat. He is the best actor in bollywood. Period. He shocked me by his transformation. I myself being a gym trainer knows the effort which goes in such kinda transformation. Without Aamir I don't think this movie could have achieved what it has. Sakshi Tanwar gave a great performance as his wife. The daughters Fatima n Sanya gave lovely performances. The  child actors were good too. The music was good. The direction by Tiwari was the best of 2016. This movie was never boring and full credit shud go to the director. The cinematography gave you a feeling as if what you are watching is real. The village was captured well. Overall you don't have to like wrestling or know wrestling to appreciate this movie. Its a wonderful movie. The movie is written very well. Superb screenplay n crispy editing. 
 Aamir Khan shines in the role of Mahavir Singh Phogat. He is so outstanding in his performance that this could be considered as one of his best works ever. The opening scene of the film is just a glimpse of Phogat's passion for the sport – wrestling. The first half of Dangal works exactly like a skilled wrestler – invariably sure of its moves. The film's second half is all about victory. Mahavir's transformation from the once upset father of a baby girl to the most triumphant one to Geeta's string of losses before she finally wins a gold during Common Wealth Games to desi akhara being replaced by wrestling mat – every moment works in contrast to what you had watched earlier. But not even once does the film loses its focus.A word here about Mukesh Chhabra's casting: he has done a tremendous job of the casting. Nitesh Tiwari's direction is amazingly terrific. AmitabhBhattacharya's lyrics are great. Pritam's music is in terrific sync with the mood of the drama. 'Dangal dangal' is a very inspiring song and will soon become a rage. 'Dhaakad' and 'Haanikarak' are also very well-tuned. The 'Gilehariyaan' song has terrific charm of a different kind. Amitabh Bhattacharya's lyrics are great. The song writer may pick up some awards for his lyrics. Bosco- Caesar's choreography is very real. Pritam's background music deserves distinction marks. The actors who play the young Geeta and Babita (Zaira Wasim, Suhani Bhatnagar) do a competent job of maintaining the audiences attention. And both Shaikh and Malhotra carry it forward, especially when they spend a lot of the second half on the mat, learning how to lose, and, above all, to win. Since it encapsulates the historic win of the phogats who bought India glory so it is bound to inspire women. Dialogues are absolute gems. Without being overtly long, they are so effective that they invariably touch the heart before reaching the ears. On the whole, Dangal is not just a movie; it is an experience to be cherished. The film is destined to be one of the biggest blockbusters of Indian cinema.As it content oriented so The movie is both for the single screens as well as for the multiplexes and people of all age can watch.so this movie is a must watch. So I Rate it 10 stars out of 10 because I was thinking movie deserves it.I usually don't rate any movie 10 but This movie "HatsOff". Don't Expect a better story than this.Finest piece.Dangal hai yeh. 
 Director Mr. Nitesh Tiwari work is so brilliant that after few minutes, you just forget that you are watching film. You simply start witnessing the journey of Phogat's family. Makers are so confident that they have even given credit for story idea to Divya Rao, which reflects their honesty. She is not in writing team but gets her due credit. There are four writers, Director himself, Piyush Gupta, Shreyas Jain and Nikhil Mehrotra and their work is fantastic. Screenplay is seamless and very balanced with much needed freshness. Film starts with glimpse of Mahavir Singh Phogat's passion for wrestling, while watching and challenging another district level arrogant winner, while commentary comes over on them which is fresh. When that person gets defeated he says 'Tumne district level pehlawan ko haraya hai' Then Mahavir Singh replies ' Tension mat le, tum national level champion se hare ho'. Words may be a bit different but meaning was same. Which gives strong idea that what level of dialogues you are going to listen and they have maintained the graph. Dialogues just nourish your senses, inducing correct emotions. A simple scene where protagonist massages feet of his sleeping daughter, clearly reflects that he is just not a ruthless coach but a caring father too. Girls curse their father in front of their friend who is getting married, then that girl emotional words about her feeling towards their caring father is very cute, emotional and enough to make girls realize that what they are taking for granted. Best part of this film is it's continues ascending graph in every aspect. First half is cute, funny with subtle dose of emotions. Second half takes this graph to the horizon. Full of emotions, either it is of defeat, victory or relations. Another major plus point is the way they have shown wrestling. I dint know a bit of it but I enjoyed all wrestling matches like it was my favorite game and that is major chunk of film. Hats off to the team behind wresting choreography .Though you have basic idea of film happenings but still they kept you engrossed by presentation. Climax comes with a very strong message that one can train you but only you have to implement the techniques, which makes you true winner and enriches self confident. Performance makes you thunderstruck. Words can not justify or compliment, Amir Khan's performance as Mahavir Singh Phogat. Zaira Waseem as younger Geeta is brilliant. She is so good that when Fatima Sana Sheikh takes over as grown up Geeta, you miss younger one but soon Fatima proves that she has taken the graph far ahead. Same happens with younger Babita played by Suhani Bhatnagar and grown up by Sanya Malhotra. Skashi Tanwar as wife of Mahavir Singh is very good. Girish Kulkarni , who had played coach is superb, you do hate his character but love his performance. Actor, who played younger cousin of Geeta and even grown up one, both actors are cute and endearing. Kudos to casting director Mukesh Chhabra and team. Music by Pritam and lyrics by Amitabh Bhattacharya, are integral part of this film. Without any formulated track you just enjoy every song and your eyes get mois in one too. 
 "Direction was superb and Aamir's performance was excellent. A compelling narrative based on true story with a powerful message for women" My rating- 4.5/5 (Movie of the year and don't miss this flick) Positives- 1.)Direction and screenplay- Direction and screenplay didn't bore us and we were glued to the seats as it was so engaging and entertaining.2.)Aamir khan , Zaira (young Geeta), Fathima (geeta) , suhani (young babitha), sanya(babitha) and fathima (mother)- Everyone's performance was excellent. Amir's hardwork and dedication for this role can be seen through his performance. He once again proved to be Mr perfectionist. All girls who acted as daughters were very good and they portrayed their roles without any problems.3.)Songs and bg score- Special mention for title song. Title song was great and suited the movie well. Hats off to Pritam and he once again proved that he is the best music director of bollywood.4.) Cinematography and edits- Cinematographer captured wrestling scenes very well and edits of certain scenes were good.5.)Strong message for women Negatives- (NO NEGATIVES) Is it a must watch? Yes!!! and watch it in theaters to get the feel.Overall- This is the best Christmas treat for everyone from dangal team. This has Aamir Khan's best performance till date. And the major one is that it has strong message for women. Yes its a must watch movie and don't miss this flick!! My rating- 4.5/5 (Movie of the year and don't miss this movie) For more reviews go to- ridinbal movie reviews. Ridin bal movie reviews has all language movie reviews(Malayalam,English,Telugu,Kannada,Tamil,Arabic,Hindi,Iranian) 
 Excellent movie. Stellar performance by Aamir Khan. Movie of the year. The girls - kids and the grown ups portrayed their role very well. Special mention should be given to Nitesh Tiwari - the director. Music by Pritam is good. The cinematography is nice. The story telling is superb. Overall very nice movie. Watch this movie for Aamir Khan. Hands down to Aamir. His role as Mahavir Singh Phogat will be marked as one of his best. This film will come as one of the best sports films based on the life of coach after Chak De and Iqbal. I strongly recommend this film. Wish other actors think like how Aamir Khan thinks. He is brilliant actor. That makes him special and perfectionist. My rating 10/10. 
 Umm where to start? First of Aamir sir has done it again. He really has a good taste in selecting movies. Not only the acting even the fighting scenes were quite real to me &amp; reel Geeta and Babita were just too awesome. There is certain moments where you're gonna laugh out loud, get anger, get emotional and obviously feel proud the most that's what the movie brings out of itself. I hope this movie brings joy to all family and a chance to look at all daughter's of their's potential.Should you go for it? Hell yesSongs are smartly enough and pretty amazing.Ps. I wished the movie to be a bit longer. 
 Just came home after watching the premier show. It really is a masterpiece! A compelling narrative based on a true story. Add stellar acting performances and humor. Pour in cinematography, location, songs &amp; meaningful lyrics. Voila! Everything amazingly fits together in a single string. Truly clean entertainment. In all sense of the word. Worth watching with family. A good movie should entertain. A great movie must connect. And connect, it did. I could almost feel as if I were there, throughout. The plot development is deep, and engaging. Did I mention the child actors, especially the one portraying Geeta? Outstanding performance by all. In a nutshell, my time &amp; resources spent were fully worth. And Aamir Khan! Boy, he never disappoints. =) 
 Mahavir Singh Phogat is a former champion wrestler. He is married to Shobha Kaur. Phogat's dream is to win a gold medal for India in wrestling. He is unable to do this. He promises that his son will do what he couldn't do. However, although he loves them dearly, Phogat is disappointed when Shobha gives birth to four daughters. He does not believe girls can wrestle well. However, when two of his daughters, Geeta and Babita, come home after beating up two boys, Phogat realises how wrong he has been and begins to train his daughters in wrestling. The film is the story of how Phogat trained his daughters to become professional wrestlers. 
 Story: 9/10 A Very True inspiring story of former wrestler champion Mahavir Singh Phogat whose dream is to win a gold medal for India in wrestling. But he fails to achieve that, then He avow that his son will do it. However, he got disappointed when his wife gives birth to four daughters.Music: 9/10 Amazing, Very touching background. Greatly Synced Title track will give you goosebumpsDirection: 9/10 Nitesh Tiwari achieved what he wanted, Got a new name, One of the best directors of Bollywood.Acting: Aamir Khan: 10/10 This time as a father, He will amaze you in every scene. His acting skills are deeply great. Whenever I watch Aamir's movies, I feel his acting. He loves acting and entertaining the world since He came to the Film Industry.Fatima Sana Shaikh: 9/10 Sometimes I still watch Chachi 420, because I love Kamal Hassan. And Fatima Sana Shaikh was the little girl in Chachi 420. Seriously I have seen her after Chachi 420. And after Dangal she will go so far.Aamir Khan and the two lead actress are the best cast roles in a long time, but overall cast done an amazing job.Dangal is humorous and Inspirational Journey. 
